## 1. Console Output

C++ uses an **object-oriented* library for input and output. Object-oriented languages support the bundling of data and instructions into a single entity-called an **object**-and then <mark>**sending messages**</mark> to that object asking it to perform certain operations.

The C++ standard library contains several predefined **stream objects**. Here are two:

  * **`cout`**: **standard output**; analogous to `System.out` in Java.

  * **`cin`**: **standard input**; similar to a `Scanner` object in Java.

To use these objects, you have to include these headers:

```cpp
#include <iostream>   // standard stream objects
#include <iomanip>    // "manipulators" for output formatting
```
The manipulators control the formatting of real numbers.

### Using an Output Stream
**Stream I/O** is data flowing **from a source** that produces it, and flowing **to a destination**, where it is displayed or saved. If you **insert** a value into the stream, it eventually ends up at its destination.

The **insertion operator** is a pair of less-than signs (**`<<`**) pointing to an output stream object on the left. On the right of the operator is the value to insert into the stream.  Examples:
```cpp
cout << "Some text\n";    // display text and newline
cout << 35.14;            // display a number
cout << endl;             // display a newline
cout << (3 * 7) << endl;  // display an expression
```

 Text (called string) data is enclosed in double quotes. The \n newline escape character adds a newline to the text, like System.out.println().

 Print numbers of any type, without enclosing them in quotes. cout converts the binary value to its text representation. (cout stands for character output because of its ability to convert binary values into their textual form).

 To print a newline by itself, you may use the escape character (as on line 1), or use the endl (end-el) stream manipulator object. endl also "flushes" the output stream, which is important for interactive I/O.

 An output statement may insert several values into the stream; each must have its own insertion operator.
